4-D. Special commands.

  There are six special commands you can enter. To enter a special command hit
  Backspace in the pattern edit screen, enter a letter (a-f) then a number
  (1-F). The first 5 commands alter the way the note will be played, the
  sixth, 'f', changes the tempo in the pattern and has no effect on the note
  being played. All commands except 'c' can be specified as part of a note or
  alone. If they are specified alone, their effect starts where they were
  placed, not when the note was struck. If no instrument is playing on the
  channel where the command was encountered, there will be no effect (except
  for command 'f', it always changes the tempo). The commands continue to
  affect the way the instrument is played untill another note or command
  is encountered in the pattern (an 'f' command will cancel the effects of
  any previous command, but nothing cancels the effect of the 'f' command).
  The format of the commands is c#, where c is the command and # is the
  command value which is the user defined parameter for how much the command
  will affect the instrument. The commands are:

    a - Portamento up - This command will cause the frequency of the note to
         increase over time, the command value indicates how fast the pitch
         will increase. (For those of you who know what this means, the port
         is linear, not logarithmic).

    b - Portamento down - Same as 'a' but in the other direction.

    c - Port to note - This is the only command that requires there to be a
         note on the same line. This commands sets the note to portamento at
         the speed defined by the command value towards the note on the line.
         The instrument value of the note is ignored, but the volume is set
         to the volume in the note on this line. When the note reaches the
         destination note, the portamento is stopped and it continues playing
         at the destination note frequency.

    d - Frequency adjust - This command adjusts the frequency of the note
         currently playing a little bit. This is useful for when you have 2
         notes playing at the same pitch using the same instrument, use this
         command to adjust the frequency of one of the notes to make it sound
         a little more harmonic.

    e - Frequency vibrato - This command sets the frequency of the note that
         is playing to vibrate. The command value specifies how much to
         vibrato the note by.

Note: A command value of 0 on any of the previous commands cancels the effect
  of any previous command and sets the note to play normally.

    f - Set tempo - Usually you will set the tempo for the patterns through
         their basic tempo. But there are times when you may want to change
         the tempo within a pattern. Use this command to do it. The tempo will
         remain at this tempo untill another set tempo command or untill
         another pattern is reached in the order list (even the same pattern
         that is playing now).

